---
title: Github SSH
comments: true
category: Git
---

{:.post-intro}
**Quick Github SSH tutorial. Walk through on generating SSH Key and adding it to GitHub**

### Generate SSH Key
Directly copied from [Git Hub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent/)

1. Open Terminal.

2. Paste the text below, substituting in your GitHub email address.

    `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "your_email@example.com"`

3. Generating public/private rsa key pair. When you're prompted to "Enter a file in which to save the key," press Enter. This accepts the default file location.

    `Enter a file in which to save the key (/Users/you/.ssh/id_rsa): [Press enter]`  
At the prompt, type a secure passphrase. For more information, see "Working with SSH key passphrases".  
Press Enter
4. `Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase): [Type a passphrase]`  
Press Enter
5. `Enter same passphrase again: [Type passphrase again]`  
Press Enter

### Copy SSH Key to Clipboard
1. In your terminal run the following command:  
    `pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`
    
### Add to GitHub
1. Go to GitHub Setting and click on SSH and GPG Keys

    [https://github.com/settings/keys](https://github.com/settings/keys)
2. Click on New SSH Key
3. Add a title and paste the key copied in the previous section

    {% include image.html image="git/github-ssh-paste.png" class="img-large" %}
    
    
### Done
Now instead of cloning your repository using http, you can use ssh. This will allow you to not have to type in your github password everytime you do a pull or push. The first time around you will be prompted to input your SSH password which is the one we created when Generating the SSH key in step 4. 